Question 1

How do you troubleshoot high CPU and memory usage on a Linux server? How would you use top, htop, vmstat, or iotop to diagnose issues?
How do you manage system logs in Linux? How do you analyze logs using journalctl, syslog, or logrotate?
How do you set up and manage user permissions in Linux? What is the difference between chmod, chown, and setfacl?
How do you automate tasks in Linux using shell scripting? Can you describe a real-world scenario where you automated a system administration task?
How do you monitor system performance and troubleshoot disk I/O issues? How would you use iostat, df, and du to identify bottlenecks?
How do you configure and manage networking in Linux? What are the differences between ip, ifconfig, netstat, and ss commands?
How do you secure a Linux server? What steps would you take to harden SSH access and prevent brute force attacks?
How do you manage services in Linux using systemd? How do you create and manage custom systemd service files?



217.168.17.5 - - [29/April/2025:08:05:02 +0000] "GET /downloads/product_2 HTTP/1.1" 404 337 "-" "Debian APT-HTTP/1.3 (0.8.10.3)"
217.168.17.5 - - [29/April/2025:08:05:42 +0000] "GET /downloads/product_1 HTTP/1.1" 404 332 "-" "Debian APT-HTTP/1.3 (0.8.10.3)"\\



Question 1

How do you design a CI/CD pipeline for a microservices-based application? How do you handle dependencies between multiple microservices?
How do you integrate Jenkins with other DevOps tools like Git, Docker, and Kubernetes? How do you automate the deployment of Dockerized applications using Jenkins?
How do you set up Jenkins for distributed builds and scaling? What is the role of Jenkins agents, and how do you configure them?
How do you handle secrets and environment variables in Jenkins pipelines? What are the best practices for securing credentials in Jenkins?
How do you implement automated rollback strategies in CI/CD pipelines? How do you use Jenkins to trigger rollbacks in case of deployment failures?
How do you ensure zero-downtime deployments in a Jenkins pipeline? What strategies (e.g., Blue-Green, Canary) have you implemented in production?
How do you troubleshoot a failing Jenkins pipeline? What steps do you take to analyze and debug pipeline failures?
How do you enforce security best practices in a CI/CD pipeline? How do you implement vulnerability scanning and code analysis in Jenkins?



ow do you design a CI/CD pipeline using GitHub Actions for a microservices-based application? What considerations do you make for handling multiple repositories and service dependencies?
Question 2

How do you manage secrets and environment variables in GitHub Actions? Can you explain the best practices for storing sensitive information securely?
Question 3

How do you trigger workflows in GitHub Actions based on specific events (e.g., pull requests, merges)? Can you give examples of scenarios where different triggers would be beneficial?
Question 4

How do you integrate GitHub Actions with other CI/CD tools (e.g., Docker, Terraform)? Can you explain how you would use GitHub Actions to build and push Docker images?
Question 5

How do you implement testing in your GitHub Actions workflow? What strategies do you use for running unit tests, integration tests, and end-to-end tests?



































